Overview
MERN stack is a JavaScript Stack that is used for easier and faster deployment of
full stack web applications. MERN Stack comprises of four technologies namely
MongoDB, Express, React and Node.js. It is designed to make the development
process smoother and easier.
Each of these four powerful technologies provide an end to end framework for the
developers to work and each of these technologies, play a big part in the
development of web applications.


MongoDB
MongoDB is a NoSQL database where each record is a document comprising of
key-value pairs that are similar to JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) objects.
MongoDB is flexible and allows its users to create schema, databases, tables, etc.
Documents that are identifiable by a primary key make up the basic unit of
MongoDB. Once MongoDB is installed, users can make use of Mongo shell as
well. Mongo shell provides a JavaScript interface through which the users can
interact and carry out operations (eg: querying, updating records, deleting
records).


Why use MongoDB?
Fast Being a document-oriented database, easy to index documents.
Therefore a faster response.
Scalability — Large data can be handled by dividing it into several machines.
Use of JavaScript — MongoDB uses JavaScript which is the biggest
advantage.
Schema Less — Any type of data in a separate document.
Simple Environment Setup — It is really simple to set up MongoDB.
Flexible Document Model — MongoDB supports document-model (tables,
schemas, columns& SQL) which is faster and easier.





Express
Express is a Node.js framework. Rather than writing the code using Node.js and
creating loads of Node modules, Express makes it simpler and easier to write the
back-end code. Express helps in designing great web applications and APIs.
Express supports many middlewares which makes the code shorter and easier to
write.


Why use Express?
Asynchronous and Single-threaded.
Efficient, fast and scalable.
Has the biggest community for Node.js
Express promotes code reusability with its built-in router.
Robust API.





React
React is a JavaScript library that is used for building user interfaces. keact is used
for the development of single-page applications and mobile applications because
of its ability to handle rapidly changing data. React allows users to code in
JavaScript and create Ul components.


Why use React?
Virtual DOM A virtual DOM object is a representation of a DOM object.
Virtual DOM is actually a copy of the original DOM. Any modification in the
web application causes the entire Ul to re-render the virtual DOM. Then the
difference between the original DOM and this virtual DOM is compared and
the changes are made accordingly to the original DOM.
JSX — Stands for JavaScript XML. It is an HTML/XML JavaScript Extension
which is used in React. Makes it easier and simpler to write React
components.



Why use React?
Components ReactJS supports Components. Components are the building
blocks of IJI wherein each component has a logic and contributes to the
overall I-Jl. These components also promote code reusability and make the
overall web application easier to understand.
High Performance — Features like Virtual DOM, JSX and Components
makes it much faster than the rest of the frameworks out there.
Developing Android/iOS Apps — Which React Native, you can easily code
android-based or iOS-based apps, with just the knowledge of JavaScript and
React.




Node.js
Node.js provides a JavaScript runtime environment which allows the user to run
their code on the server (outside the browser). Node package manager i.e. npm
allows the user to choose from thousands of free packages (node modules) to
download.